# SpaceX launch analysis and winning the space race

The commercial space age is here, companies are making space travel affordable for everyone. Virgin Galactic is providing suborbital spaceflights. Rocket Lab is a small satellite provider. Blue Origin manufactures sub-orbital and orbital reusable rockets. Perhaps the most successful is SpaceX. SpaceX’s accomplishments include: Sending spacecraft to the International Space Station; Starlink, a satellite internet constellation providing satellite Internet access; And sending manned missions to Space. One reason SpaceX can do this is the rocket launches are relatively inexpensive. SpaceX advertises Falcon 9 rocket launches on its website with a cost of 62 million dollars; other providers cost upwards of 165 million dollars each, much of the savings is because SpaceX can reuse the first stage. Therefore, if we can determine if the first stage will land, we can determine the cost of a launch. 

Spaces X’s Falcon 9 launches like regular rockets. The payload is enclosed in the fairings. Stage two, or the second stage, helps bring the payload to orbit, but most of the work is done by the first stage. The first stage does most of the work and is much larger than the second stage. Unlike other rocket providers, SpaceX's Falcon 9 Can recover the first stage. Sometimes the first stage does not land. Other times, Space X will sacrifice the first stage due to the mission parameters like payload, orbit, and customer. 

For fictional company Space Y, our job is to determine the price of each launch. We do this by gathering information about Space X and creating dashboards for our team. We will also determine if SpaceX will reuse the first stage. Instead of using rocket science to determine if the first stage will land successfully, we will train a machine learning model and use public information to predict if SpaceX will reuse the first stage.
